generate react app
design

using 
https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/create-a-react-frontend-a-node-express-backend-and-connect-them-together-c5798926047c/
by the way

generate express api
npm install in the api folder
set to different port to test in bin/www

create new api route in js in /routes

in main app.js create app.use
similar to react component

create var to get from new api route
which sends info down to app.use

npm start (in api folder)
go to port then in address type /<new api route name>

going to stop at 'fetching API with react'
maybe there's a hook foor connecting api to react app?

deploy using beanstalk


10/22/2021
React frontend, Express server, MongoDB database, Node backend

React has hooks to manage state - use reducer hook to manage state of students
get students from database using API calls from front {% endautoescape %}

frontend calls server using REST API -> server calls database using fetch?

After front end is ready, develop CRUD backend using GraphQL 
implement into AWS using docker compose
 
1/25/2022
scratch everything - create simple frontend
working product that teachers can use
even if it's on a netlify hosting server
that I can live demo on resume

concept
6 floating bubbles of sections - use router to navigate between sections
each section has up to 50 names of students with optional grade level
pop a cicle button - pop a bubble reveal name
user populates names and are saved to local storage

app is parent of header, footer, and sections
sections is parent of bubbles and random

who can modify data.js? sections (store, load, clear names) 
app set names to local storage from data.js
sections get names from local storage by selected number
bubbles get names from section 
random get names from bubbles data (can random select)
random modify names in bubbles data


who can temp modify names array of section?
bubbles (...remove name, append name) and random (...remove random names)

help button will display
1. click on a section button 1-6
2. click inside the bubbles area to create a new bubbles with a names
3. click on the now red section button to save (store) the names
3. double click on a bubble to pop (remove) it
4. double click on a section button to clear all names
5. click on POPcicle button to get a random name to pop and appear
6. click on the same section button to restore all saved names

warnings notes:
1. if a section is red, its still in previous state.
If user selects another section, a warning appears to confirm losing names in current active section
2. double clicking on a section gives a warning to confirm losing names in current active section


bubble animations using matter js
https://codersblock.com/blog/javascript-physics-with-matter-js/

First sharing with Sam Mate and Sam Zeigler
Feedback from Zeigler

[4/15/2022 2:15 PM] Sam Ziegler
Love it!! What an awesome start. 
Couple things I see right away:
1. It's not clear how to edit a name of an existing student bubble or delete
2. It would be cool to have a mode where you have two boxes of students: students who have already been selected and students who are still in the pool. If you could drag students from one to the other that would be cool too
3. I wonder if you could get the color of the button / selected name to change each time it randomizes. This would give feedback on when it did successfully run a randomization but came up with the same name twice (as opposed to.. you just misclicked and it didnt actually run)
4. When you add 4+ rows of bubbles, the "made by vlad" line doesn't stay at the bottom, it writes over some of the bubbles

next steps
Move footer to the top
User clicks on name of bubble to edit a name 
Have 2 boxes of students, default horizontal and mobile vertical
Chosen names go into second 'chosen' box 
User can drag bubbles to reorder them
After user clicks on random, it changes to another color

convert useState in Bubbles component to useReducer for several states 